Add breaking change documentation for SSL certificate revocation check mode change in .NET 10 (#46928)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/compatibility/networking/10.0/ssl-certificate-revocation-check-default.md

---
title: "Breaking change - HttpClient/SslStream default certificate revocation check mode changed to Online"
description: "Learn about the breaking change in .NET 10 where the default certificate revocation check mode changed from 'NoCheck' to 'Online'."
ms.date: 06/23/2025
ai-usage: ai-assisted
ms.custom: https://github.com/dotnet/docs/issues/46824
---

# HttpClient/SslStream default certificate revocation check mode changed to `Online`

The default values of <xref:System.Net.Security.SslClientAuthenticationOptions.CertificateRevocationCheckMode?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Net.Security.SslServerAuthenticationOptions.CertificateRevocationCheckMode?displayProperty=nameWithType> have changed from `NoCheck` to `Online`. This change enhances security and makes the behavior consistent with <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X509ChainPolicy?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

## Version introduced

.NET 10 Preview 6

## Previous behavior

> Previously, the default value of <xref:System.Net.Security.SslClientAuthenticationOptions.CertificateRevocationCheckMode?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Net.Security.SslServerAuthenticationOptions.CertificateRevocationCheckMode?displayProperty=nameWithType> default values was `NoCheck`, meaning certificate revocation lists weren't checked by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, the default values of <xref:System.Net.Security.SslClientAuthenticationOptions.CertificateRevocationCheckMode?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Net.Security.SslServerAuthenticationOptions.CertificateRevocationCheckMode?displayProperty=nameWithType> were <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X509RevocationMode.NoCheck?displayProperty=nameWithType>, meaning revocation status of peer certificates wasn't checked by default.
```

## New behavior

> Starting in .NET 10, the default value of <xref:System.Net.Security.SslClientAuthenticationOptions.CertificateRevocationCheckMode?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Net.Security.SslServerAuthenticationOptions.CertificateRevocationCheckMode?displayProperty=nameWithType> is `Online`, meaning certificate revocation lists are checked online by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in .NET 10, the default values of <xref:System.Net.Security.SslClientAuthenticationOptions.CertificateRevocationCheckMode?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Net.Security.SslServerAuthenticationOptions.CertificateRevocationCheckMode?displayProperty=nameWithType> are <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X509RevocationMode.Online?displayProperty=nameWithType>, meaning revocation status of peer certificates are checked online by default.
```

## Type of breaking change

This change is a [behavioral change](../../categories.md#behavioral-change).

## Reason for change

This change enhances security and ensures consistency between APIs related to X.509 certificate revocation checking.

## Recommended action

If certificate revocation checking is not desired, specify <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.X509Certificates.X509RevocationMode.NoCheck?displayProperty=nameWithType> explicitly:

```csharp
var clientOptions = new SslClientAuthenticationOptions
{
    TargetHost = "example.com",
    CertificateRevocationCheckMode = X509RevocationMode.NoCheck
};

var serverOptions = new SslServerAuthenticationOptions
{
    ServerCertificate = serverCertificate,
    CertificateRevocationCheckMode = X509RevocationMode.NoCheck
};
```

> In situations where you can't modify the code, you can enable the previous behavior with one of the following settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In situations where you can't modify the code, you can restore the previous behavior with one of the following settings:
```
